---
title: "Going freelance was one of the best decisions I've made for my health — here's why"
date: 2020-02-12T09:54:42+08:00
lang: en-UK
draft: false
tags: [realized,toxic,going,decisions,work,media,best,writing,health,job,social,spent,freelance,ive,perform,heres,wasnt]
categories: [english]
url: "/blog/going-freelance-was-one-of-the-best-decisions-i-ve-made-for-my-health-—-here-s-why"
image: "cover.jpg"
---



Going freelance was one of the best decisions I've made for my health — here's why



For Lindsay Patton-Carson, being fired from her job ended up being a blessing in disguise — she was finally able to get control of her health.

As a full-time freelancer, she can now make appointments without asking permission and rest and exercise when she needs to.

She's able to work on a wide range of projects with clients she respects and enjoys.

Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.

I needed to get fired to finally get control of my health.

I spent all of 2019 experiencing chronic depression and chronic pain — most of it stemming from the most dysfunctional, toxic work environment I have ever been in. I had done the most millennial thing I could do: I got burnt out. I'm not alone, either. In a Deloitte survey, 77% of respondents admitted they've experienced burnout in their current job.

In July, I'd had enough and left my toxic job for a social media position at an agency, hoping a change of pace and new environment would "fix" me. It didn't. I couldn't perform a job I had all the tools to do. The residual anxiety from my previous job affected me so much I could not perform, even though I had less stress in the new role.

Lindsay Patton-Carson. Courtesy of Lindsay Patton-Carson

Within three months I was let go. I was deeply saddened — but I wasn't mad. I realized jumping to any ol' job would not get me out of my funk. Being let go was the catalyst for me to create the change I needed.

Through social media, I humbly announced I lost my job and was desperate to pick up anything. Dozens of people shared my posts and a few offered me work and introduced me to potential clients within the writing and social media worlds.

With some work already on my plate, I realized that if I picked up a few more opportunities, I could be a freelancer full time for however long I needed. I had already spent the past six years doing freelance writing or social media on nights and weekends, so I wasn't a rookie. I decided to go for it, and as a result, my mental and physical health have greatly improved. Here's why.

